---
layout: post
title:  "Origin story"
date:   2017-09-05 00:31:21 -0400
---

I belong to that slice of the millennial generation that grew up around computers, but remembers when booting up the computer meant starting at the DOS prompt.  In middle school I was so good at this thing that would later be known as googling that I participated in a competitive scavenger hunt called “Cyber Surfari” (I know..).  I regarded my family's computer as a sort of friendly alien and delighted in trying to figure out its language.

And yet for some reason, I never even considered taking the elective computer science course in high school; it just never occurred to me.  And majoring in it in college was something that I think I subconsciously discounted because I believed I lacked some prerequisite skill, like being amazing at math (when I was only pretty ok).  
It seemed like it wasn’t *meant for* someone like me, whatever that was.

And anyway, I already had a hard enough time choosing between physics and biology (spoiler: I’d eventually end up doing both).  During my second undergrad degree I had to take an introductory programming course for science and engineering majors, which was taught with MATLAB, and I absolutely loved it.  I started using MATLAB whenever I could (when you have a hammer, eh?) and got the (second) highest grade in the class, finished the final coding project in a day, you get the idea.  But this time, I believed that since I’d already invested so much time and resources towards becoming a scientist that it was too late to think about switching again.  I love science (and still do).  I puttered about with other resources online to pick up some R and Python to help with data analysis, but never found the time to devote to getting past the “advanced beginner” stage.

**Plot twist!**  
Acquiring a disability or chronic illness as a grown up has a way of forcing a new perspective on you.  You have to see the world differently in order to cope and adapt.  I had to take stock of where I was, what I could do, and what I really wanted, and what was worth buying with my newly limited “good days”.  Previous assumptions about yourself, the world, and how you fit into it become open to examination.  Suddenly, the idea of me really learning software development no longer sounded so silly.  One paradigm shift ushered in another.

Coincidentally, this occurred at the same time that MOOCs had matured, coding bootcamps were abundant, and the barriers to entry were getting lower all the time.  Culturally, too, there had already been a shift in the way CS was presented to kids - especially to girls and women.  
My new situation catalyzed the shift I’d gradually been making anyway.

**The future!**  
One advantage of having gone my route is that I gained a whole field of domain experience that I sincerely hope will be useful someday combined with my new web development skills.  Perhaps someday I can help build applications to wrangle the copious amounts of data generated by geneticists or biochemists, or work with an organization like [Code For America](https://www.codeforamerica.org/) or [18F](https://18f.gsa.gov/) and help to make government services more efficient and accessible.  (Just think of all the blog posts I could write!)
